---
title:  "Tutorial Assignment"
date:   2022-10-03 17:00:00 -0400
show_date: false
---
**Complete by: Thursday 16 Mar. by 9am**

A great way to learn a new skill is to teach it to others. In this assignment, you'll make a tutorial to explain a topic from our class.

## Writing Your Tutorial

This assignment is based on a [similar assignment from Carnegie Mellon](https://www.datasciencecourse.org/assignments/tutorial/). I quote their instructions here:

>Your tutorial should be in the form of a Jupyter notebook, which mixes together written markdown and code portions. You will walk your readers through the algorithm, library, methodology, or data that you are presenting, explaining high-level concepts with code examples. You want to make the tutorial read like an actual explanation of the process or technique, not just as a listing of code. As a general rule of thumb, you should have a paragraph or two of prose explaining any function or class method you include in the code.
>
>**All written prose, code, and figures must be your own work.** Note that unlike in homework assignments, you cannot use any writing or code from third-party sources, even with citations. You additionally cannot use any figures from third-party sources (even with citations): if you want to use a figure to explain a concept or idea, you need to create a version of the figure yourself.

The prose of your tutorial should be *at least* 1,000 words, but you may need more to get your point across. Make sure there is a good back-and-forth between code and writing, and don't leave any code unexplained. This should read a little bit like our workshop assignments, but with more detail on exactly what your reader should do.

**Choose a single example data set** to work with, either something we've used for a previous workshop or the one you used for your documentation assignment. *Make sure the data you choose is suitable for the technique you're explaining.*

## Choosing a Topic

You may choose one of the following topics:

- Data Wrangling with Pandas (filtering, renaming, grouping, etc.)
- Visualizations with Seaborn (box plots, scatter plots, histograms, etc.)
- Summary Statistics and Confidence Intervals
- Permutation Tests (to compare two groups)
- Correlation: visualization and coefficients
- Correlation: permutation test
- Simple Linear Regression

Remember that all of these topics include multiple steps and possibilities. Reach out with questions about what you should cover and/or how to approach the topic.

If you'd like to cover a topic that's not on this list, feel free to ask me about it.

---

**Requirements**:

- Turn in your tutorial (as a Jupyter Notebook file) via Sakai
- Also turn in the original data file that you used (ideally a CSV)
